Uh,
so everybody's here.
Yeah, we all are here,
so we can get started when you're ready.
We have one hour with you.
So if you would like to start by some,
a brief opening remarks.
Yes. And then there will be Christians from members.
Thank you. Perfect. Thank you. Praise.
Thank you. Uh, Dr. Palmier. Uh, good afternoon.
I'm Craig Stobo, chair of the FMA. Uh, thank you very much.
Opportunity to speak to you
and answer any queries you may have.
Uh, it's been a year of progressive, incredibly proud
of our work on locking innovation
through the regulatory sandbox
and helping businesses to operate in new ways.
At the same time, we've worked with the NZX
and MB to make stock exchange listings easier,
while addressing the global shifts towards private markets
with their challenges of valuation and liquidity.
These efforts are all about developing
and building confidence in our financial markets,
ensuring they remain attractive for investors
and businesses alike.
It's a collective achievement that reflects the strength
of our partnerships and the commitment of everyone involved.
With that in mind, I would like to hand over
to our chief executive, Samantha Bures. Samantha.
Hi, Tina. Coto. Kato. It's a pleasure to be here.
I'm joined by Leah Mason, who's our General Counsel
and Director of Evaluation and oversight.
Uh, just a few brief remarks.
The year, um, has seen us to deliver on our mandate
to promote and facilitate fair, efficient,
and transparent financial markets.
In March, we successfully implemented the conduct
of financial institutions regime,
which gives us formal oversight over banks, insurers,
and non-bank deposit takers.
And this is for the first time, uh, in, in New Zealand
that they have been regulated,
that they're now being regulated for their conduct.
Uh, we launched our first financial conduct report in June,
uh, to ensure the industry understood our priorities, uh,
with focusing on making us predictable as a regulator,
we took enforcement action where consumer harm was evident,
pursuing a wide range of cases.
We've taken lead on issues around mortgage fraud
and being part of a broader coalition on fighting scams.
KiwiSaver turned 18 this year
and remains a cornerstone of Kiwi's.
Uh, long-term wealth funds under management have now reached
123 billion.
We very much welcome policy discussion on the
future of Kiwi Saver.
Uh, we note, uh,
and are concerned that just under a third of members
of working age are not contributing at the moment.
Uh, we've begun policy work on custody,
and as Kiwi Saver funds, uh, rise substantially,
it's important to consider the role of the businesses
who actually hold this money,
and they're not directly regulated for that purpose.
Internally, we continue
to focus on the culture and on our people.
This year in review was the first time total FMA staff
numbers fell since the FMA was founded in 2011.
And I acknowledge the work of our staff
during this difficult period.
I'm very proud to report that our gender pay gap, uh,
which also includes my pay now,
sits at half a percent down from almost 10%,
uh, two years ago.
So, our ease of doing business survey is a very useful tool
for understanding stakeholders views many responses were
positive, but also offer some valuable insight on
how we can do better looking ahead.
There's significant policy work on the horizon.
The need for a clear regulatory framework for digital assets
and ongoing work to ensure the future
of New Zealand's capital markets requires ongoing
support and attention.
So, that's it. Thank you very much for your time
and very, very much welcome your questions.
Thank you. We'll start with
Ena Williams. Dear
reporter. And hello to you, Mr. Chair.
All the way in, somewhere sunny.
Um, I, um, look blown away by, um, just
how busy the FMA has been this year.
Um, you've canceled licenses, filed criminal charges,
taken some action against major institutions.
Um, should we be worried that, uh,
firms are treating misconduct as low risk in New Zealand?
Yeah. Look, are they treating misconduct as low risk?
It is very much the focus of our enforcement activity is
to show that whilst we are an engagement led regulator,
there are consequences
and significant consequences for misconduct.
We focus our enforcement action on the most egregious
misconduct cases.
We have achieved some significant wins through the courts,
uh, this, this year.
We have seen our enforcement work, uh, in increase
over the past year,
and that has been a function of the economic times
that we are in, as well as the expansion of our function.
Liam, I dunno if you wanted to add anything from
Yeah. Well, two, two
things.
I think, um, the, I think the vast majority of firms, uh,
will try to do the right thing.
Um, but incentives is what it's all about.
And that's, that's where our supervisory engagement
with the firms is, is that is
where we change behavior most of the time.
Um, what we, what we are seeing as Samantha said, is
an unfortunate, uh, number of cases,
which are simple fraud and scams.
Um, that's by no means anything other than the, you know,
a very small minority of the industry,
but it's a minority that has a big impact.
And so it is important that we keep up the prevention work,
keep up the education work, keep up the enforcement work.
Yeah. And we,
and we're still seeing in some of our fair dealing work,
we're still seeing ongoing lack of investment in systems
to secure, you know, what is being offered, um, in, in terms
of offerings to customers is, is unable to be delivered
because of the systems.
And that that's a, you know, that that's an ongoing issue.
That will become an increasing focus for us.
We've got more opportunity now.
We are directly regulating our banks and insurance companies
and non-bank deposit takers for conduct.
We have a broader range of tools that we can use.
We have thus far, and will until March this year,
only been able to deal
with issues emanating from those sectors as a matter
of enforcement, as a matter of breach
of fair dealing requirements,
we now have the broader proactive supervisory toolkit
to be able to tackle issues with, with that group of people.
I could add something else. Uh, Irina, um,
thank you for your question.
We are changing our, uh, way we deliver our regulation,
which is moving to outcomes focus where we are
getting in the boardrooms
of businesses addressing governors, stewards of companies,
not just at a, uh, legal
or compliance level to, uh, ask questions
of board members around how they think about risks
and harms, and how those harms can be suppressed
before they become a problem for all of us.
So it's trying to get ahead of the curve by, by engaging
widely with the top echelons of businesses
in their board meetings
and their senior leadership team meetings, to,
to make them aware of what we are interested in,
which is why the financial conduct report is so important.
Um, thank you. That's helpful.
Just thinking through then those cost implications
for consumers, um, you know,
thinking about misleading conduct and banking, insurance
and financial advice, which, um, from the number
of, um, enforcement actions
that you've taken in the last year, it seems to me
that these are still adding on, um, a huge number
of costs to consumers.
Hope Group comes to mind, where consumers were mislead
to paying double premiums.
Um, how are you dealing with those, uh, number of situations
that might be sort of between
that proactive supervisory role that you have
and enforcement,
but are still, um, in the middle here where, um,
things are going wrong for consumers
and they're paying more for services
that should be cheaper? Yeah.
Yeah. Thank, thank you for that.
Um, so something, as, as Smith said, a lot
of the cases we see are due
to underinvestment, uh, in systems.
Many of them are long running.
That's why, uh, in in our financial conduct report
for this past year, we, um,
identified a priority for banks
and insurers of undertaking product reviews that is going
through the back book to see what has been mis-sold,
what hasn't been delivered.
Um, we get a lot of self reports
and we encourage firms to self-report.
Something that, uh, you, you don't see is
that the vast majority
of these are resolved without enforcement action,
but with remediation to customers.
Mm-hmm. And, and that's what we need.
And the enforcement cases that you've seen go through
where there are penalties applied,
there's also been remediation to the customers.
And we, we want to get to the point
where we're not fixing it up
after the event, we're stopping it,
but where we are at the moment, we're still going
through that remedial stage.
And in that middle, that middle group that you identified.
And it's a, it's a really good point
because the, the formal enforcement cases that we see go
through the courts are just a fraction
of the issues that we will face.
So there is a middle group
where we use our supervisory tools.
So we have direction orders, we can have license conditions
we do onsite, uh, we will do onsite visits
where they will be, uh, requirements
to change the way firms, firms are doing things as well.
So we've got a broader range of tools, uh, that can be led,
that can be used in harder ways.
Uh, that can be far.
One of the, one of the challenges
with enforcement action taken
through the courts is the time lapse between the, uh,
problem occurring
and when the credible deteriorative starts.
And sometimes because of the, you know,
it can be 1, 2, 3 years, uh, in, in, in time.
So one of the points that we are working towards
as we look upon the outcomes is how we can use
the broader range of tools that we have to be able to
make our regulation felt at the sharp end,
but, but do it faster.
Um, I guess that's, um,
that's something I'm really interested in, into,
and when you've come out with these nine priorities,
I think have been quite well socialized
with your stakeholders, um, how can we then use that
at a parliamentary level to, to expect your progress
and your tracking against that, those priorities?
I mean, there are nine of them. There are a lot of them
Actually. And, and, and
there are more than that, right?
There's, there's about 16, 16 regulatory priorities.
So this is the first year we've done the
financial conduct report.
Uh, what, as I, as I said
before, what we are aiming to do with that report is
to set out the regulatory priorities of things
that we're going to be focusing on
and key measures of success
that we are looking for in that work.
So that there is something that we can,
when we do the second financial conduct report in June
of 2026, we will report back on
how good a job we have done
on delivering against those regulatory priorities.
We'll be reporting back on those that are multi-year where,
but, but we will be specific on the success statements.
So that's, you know, so that it's not kind of, uh, a,
a loose, a loose priority.
I suspect that we will reduce, I mean,
I can't speak the border.
We, we know we, we are beginning
to do work on our red priority.
16 is a lot.
It's, it's been a little bit trial to see how it works.
As our first year, uh, we, we may find that we need
to be a little bit more focused in terms
of our reg priorities,
but certainly at the select committee,
select committee level, and at the parliamentary level, I,
my, you know, our ambition is
that the financial conduct report gives you some very clear
outcomes that you can measure us against us
to account against in addition to our annual report.
You can, and, and they're, and they're meant to be real
and meaningful for your constituents,
because ultimately
what we are focused on is improving New Zealander's
experience in the financial services sector.
And the more specific
and purposeful we can be, the more we can give you the tools
to be able to hold us
to account on their behalf for that work.
Mm-hmm. Uh,
Uh, first of all, I just want to echo arena's, uh,
sentiment, um, heartened, uh, by the developments
that you've made over, over just even the last
year been fabulous.
Um, the C-C-C-F-A coming to you,
the Twin Pot Twin Peaks model, within that,
a single service provider, having some kind
of regulatory control over what the banks do
and insurers do, I think is fabulous as part of this kind
of new world we are entering into.
So very heartened by all of that.
Um, also alongside that, the, the Kofi having
that insight and then the group you've put together
with the R-B-N-Z-F-M-A, ComCom mb
the really integrated and connected approach mm-hmm.
Which I think is fabulous. Um, I look forward to how some
of those outcomes come about.
One issue that's come up quite recently,
which is really significant, is the outcome of a lot
of these scams and these frauds are actually money
laundering and financing of terrorism.
And so our party has been pushing very hard to look at, um,
organized crime overseas and how they operate
and how we can address that here.
Mm-hmm. At the moment, um,
the responses, the prudential responsibility,
the regulatory responsibility for A-M-L-C-F-T is worth
Reserve Bank and yourselves,
and this is moving apparently to DIA.
Mm-hmm. Intuitively, I think that's not the right move.
Um, just wondering if you would like to comment on that.
So the policy decisions of the government
and that decision is, you know, our, our job primarily is to
make it work really well.
And that is what we are focused on working with the agencies
to secure a seamless transition to the, to the DIA.
When that happens, uh, we, even
with that happening, we will continue to take, uh,
a good citizen systems view.
Uh, there is, there, there will be a relationship
that we will need to build
and secure with the DIA to make sure that the intelligence
and the insights that we bring from our scam work
and from our oversight of financial services
is fed really well into the work that the DIA do.
So even though it will be shifting to the DIA,
we are not a siloed organization, so we will,
we will be working very hard
to make it work incredibly well. Mm-hmm.
Because the, some of the reports
that come from the banks in terms of suspicious activity,
um, at the moment, um, I fear fall into a,
with the FIU, et cetera,
and we sort of, we know from the inside that probably 80%
of them don't even get looked at.
Yeah. So that's, in terms of your comment
before around timeliness and addressing the, like scams
and fraud and so on, that's a bit of a barrier
or a bit of a, um, yeah.
Like the whole system to me seems like, yeah.
So David, it's best that if we have a question. Yeah.
Uh, so I think, I think the CEO's got it. Okay.
Yeah. Thank you. Alright. Good.
Um, you have a prime, Scott will,
Um, a note that you've, um, you've, well,
there's been changes to the climate related disclosures
scheme, and I'm wondering what,
what you've learned from other jurisdictions, how well
that's worked and how well that is working.
Yes, here.
Sure. Well, New Zealand was in the unusual position
of being a leader in mandatory, uh,
climate related disclosures.
Mm-hmm. Um, and we,
we've completed a first year of monitoring.
A lot of effort went into it.
Uh, it was a big setup cost for firms. Mm-hmm.
Uh, and we, we were very pleased that the effort
that did go in, um,
we are seeing overseas jurisdictions catching up, uh, the,
the international, um, standards that, uh, ICF has,
um, got, its, its standards settled.
Australia is following fast.
Um, what we are seeing overseas is that, uh, by
and large the thresholds
for reporting higher than they were set in New Zealand.
And, um, I think that's probably reflected in the,
in the recent changes that, uh, the, the proportionate cost
of that we, we did see was very high.
Uh, also leading out with managed funds, uh,
is not something that that other jurisdictions have done.
So we are probably moving closer into alignment,
I would say, with where the rest of the, um,
I suppose not the rest of the world,
that's too grand a statement,
but the comparative jurisdictions are, are heading.
Um, one of the things
that we have seen from some research is that
as you move, well, two things.
We understand a number of companies
that are currently reporting, we want
to continue reporting in some form.
What has been observed in some research is that, uh,
voluntary reporting can lead to more selective reporting.
So we are expecting that we may have to, um,
increase our monitoring Yeah.
Of the voluntary reporting sector to make sure
that they're giving a, a fair
and balanced view of their efforts supplementary. So,
So in a sense, are you saying that we, we were,
once we were a leader
and we are not quite leading the space anymore?
We are, we're, we're, we are, we are, as a consequence
of changes, we are now more out of the pack.
I would say we we're still ahead of almost everybody.
Yeah. In terms of having that mandatory regime.
Um, we are a smaller jurisdiction though with,
uh, with more smaller firms.
And, um, I think that the, the balance there has, has been,
um, changed and is closer to what we see overseas.
But we are actually still ahead in terms of, um,
the requirements that we have for reporting
and the reporting that's being
provided for New Zealand investors
And, and the work that's been, the work
that's been pushed in puts New Zealand in a really strong
position to be able to, you know, even
with the changes in the standards for our firms to be able
to, uh, work in the international stage, uh,
and to be able to, uh, adapt to any, if they're exporting
to be able to adapt to any of the reporting requirements
o overseas, I think it's,
it's been an interesting experience on
the international stage.
Uh, there's been, particularly with Scope three emissions
and how you do reporting against those,
there's been a real sense in which,
at the international level, we've all been working together
to try and learn from each other's experience and,
and what is, what is going to work.
The potential risk of greenwashing is one that is as,
as Liam said, we're going to have
to keep a really strong eye on.
But what has been clear from the international events
that I've been part of is New Zealand's the work.
Even though we are changing the standards, the work
that we have done puts us ahead of, of, of other,
of other jurisdictions.
A supplementary from Mar
Williams. Yeah. Just a
couple on the climate reporting
and, um, Pathfinder, um, the
climate reporting is meant to help investors price risk.
Mm-hmm. Um, I'm interested in
what feedback you've had from major shareholders
particularly, um, you know, fund managers
who are interested in pricing this appro pricing, uh,
risk appropriately for their funds around this.
Um, and how you see your role as, um, supporting the market,
um, for, for funds
and for investment, incoming investment
with this kind of information.
If we won't, um, have some of
that information being made available by legislation,
do you anticipate more, um, sort of anomalies coming
through, which you already identified?
I mean, the first round of, um, very helpful work
that the FMA did identified that a number
of reporting entities weren't reporting according
to the standards already.
Yeah. Um, well, the, I mean,
major shareholders often themselves are fund managers.
Um, and that goes through very quickly
to the retail investors there.
The research we've done, the research that, um,
we've seen from others tells us
that ethical investment is still an important matter
for a number of retail investors. Some of
These guys are running green funds.
Yeah. And that's, that they're, they're being,
they're being offered in response to the demand.
So it's important for them.
And what they're promising that we've got, uh,
very clear information around what is in, what is out,
what are they investing in, um,
are they sticking to their mandate.
And, um, we've consulted in the last few
months on new guidance for ethical investment disclosure.
We put out some initial guidance.
Some years ago it was high level
and, um, that was in the context
of international standards still being in development.
We are seeing that is still the case,
but, uh, a growing consensus in terms
of international expectations.
And so we've, we've put out, um, draft new guidance
to provide clearer, um, assistance for those fund managers
to tell the right story to the investors. Yeah.
And one of the, um, one, one of the issues
that the guidance is very sort of is,
is very much picking up on, is, uh, you know, where
entities wanting to do the right thing by way
of offering green funds,
but there is a risk that the marketing arm, uh, runs ahead
of what's actually being, what's actually being offered.
And so one of the outcomes that we are looking
for in the guidance,
'cause we have seen, uh, we,
we have seen entities trip up over this is to say,
it's great that you are, you know, that, that it's, it's,
you know, it's, it's great that you want
to go down this path, but it is important that you check
that what you're saying in your marketing, uh,
is actually matched, uh, pretty specifically to,
I do, I just wanna dig in for this a little bit.
Okay. So, Uh, yeah, one supplementary, okay.
Been in one supplementary.
It's you sented Pathfinder
for those misleading ethical claims, um,
and, you know,
identified gaps across the sector on these issues.
Mm-hmm. Is greenwashing widespread
in the New Zealand market?
We do not see that it's widespread.
Um, but one of the things that
is really challenging for retail investors is being able
to compare different claims
when there's no consistent terminology.
Uh, when there are no baseline requirements.
If I, if I say that I'm, uh, not investing in carbon
then, but there's a fornot that says up to 5%, how,
how clearly does that need to be said?
Or up to 15%? How clearly does that need to be said?
How do we help investors to see that?
How do we, um, ensure that companies, when they use terms,
when they use terminology, they all mean the same thing.
So until we get there, it's gonna be difficult
to say who's right, who's wrong. Yeah.
Um, this is a particular issue for Kiwis over funds.
Um, how do New Zealanders ha have some assurance that
what they expect out of the ethical KiwiSaver funds,
which many of us are invested in probably around this table
because of our jobs, um, how can we assure ourselves that,
um, this, this, there is some standard
around what's being advertised
and, um, what might all come out in the wash.
So I was just, so the guidance, it's a great,
it's, it's a great question.
And the guidance that we put put out is aimed to
address just those to achieve Exactly.
To achieve that point. Achieve that point. Yeah. Okay.
Um, alright. I'll ask a supplementary here.
So given the financial risk, uh, comes in many forms,
it can be inflation, it could be geopolitics,
it could be regulation.
So why, I mean, I'm thinking why is climate, um,
signaled out for, uh, like a, a bespoke reporting regime?
And in that regard, are you able to, uh,
provide me an example, uh, where
mandatory climate disclosures changed, uh, company's, um,
real world behavior, um, in capital allocation
or emission emission reduction?
Yeah. If you could give an example there. So
I'll, I'll pick that up.
It maybe that we need to come back to you
with a specific, uh, sure.
Specific example. So as the, the pulling up
for a separate regime was a matter of government policy
and that, that the standards were set by the XRB,
and our job is to, uh, regulate and has been to regulate
and enforce those.
So the reason, uh,
but what we have, what we have seen, I would say broadly,
not just in New Zealand, but elsewhere, is
a focus on climate in particular, uh, probably due
to a, a view that the, that,
that the normal expectations that you would have from, uh,
that you would have from entities properly looking at,
you know, with any entities
that are important in the economy,
properly looking at their long-term risk
that could arise from climate might be buried in the normal
accounting standards.
And so there was a need for, uh, a new set
of standards around climate.
But this was, this, this was a, you know, this,
this is a decision that was, uh, you know, that
that was taken at the, at the government level, the focus,
uh, on, you know, the, the focus on climate
and the focus on ethical investing more generally is one,
from a, from a regulatory perspective, when we're, when,
when we are needing to work in an environment
where securing a strong fund sector
and a strong experience of investors, uh, in,
in the fund sector, if there are particular elements
that become increasingly important to investors,
so these can become aspects that can be marketed.
So ethical investing, green investing, climate related,
so it can all be part of something that is part
of a marketing effort to attract investors to your fund
and not to their fund.
Yeah. That becomes something for us, uh, more generally
outside of a climate, out of a climate,
separate climate related disclosures regime,
because that will be a risk to us that we will want
to investigate to ensure that actually
what is being held out to investors is
actually, is, is actually true.
And that would be the case whether
or not we had, uh, a climate related disclosures regime.
I don't have an example, I'm afraid at the tip
of my tongue. Do you
Need That's fine. You can
provide me, because what I want to look into it is
that, is it, uh, a compliance just for compliance sake?
Um, that's, that's the question. So yeah.
If you can provide an example later on, that's totally fine.
Sure. We have a new primary from Uben Davidson.
Thank you, uh, madam, she, um,
artificial intelligence we know is becoming
increasingly sophisticated.
Um, so the policing
and prevention around it, especially in this space, needs
to, um, either keep up or preferably be ahead of it.
Mm-hmm. Um, how ready do you think we are domestically,
and how do you think that compares, uh, internationally?
So I might see if you want to pick up the Yep.
The point, and then we can come
onto Han to what we're doing. Sure,
Sure. Um,
we, I,
I would say that, um, we're probably at risk
of being slightly behind.
Um, we did some
research work this year, uh, looking at the uptake
and use of artificial intelligence in
financial services firms.
We found a large number
of firms are interested in exploring,
but, um, domestically less use than perhaps has been
reported from some overseas markets.
It's also an area, though,
where the development is incredibly rapid.
Yeah. And the capability is developing very rapidly.
It's becoming more and more useful for more
and more things, um, uh, very quickly,
and we will probably talk at some point, uh,
about the work that we've been doing in the sandbox,
but one of the things that we want to explore, um,
there is opportunities for use of AI in the positive sense.
So, um, you know, opportunities potentially
to improve access to financial advice.
Yeah. Uh, but also what we need to do, uh,
and we have, um, uh, work going on internally to make sure
that we are skilled up enough to understand
what are the guardrails that
need to go along with that. Yeah.
So we, um, so internally, uh, we are piloting the use
of ai, uh, in, in internally.
Uh, I'm enjoying using it.
Uh, it, but it can be quite clunky actually.
The practical, practical use of how it can be clunky
and requires human intervention is, uh, is, is is I think,
important, an important part of the work that we will do.
Uh, the opportunities, uh, of AI are definitely there.
I mean, looking at the work that one
of our priorities this year is to look at the access
to financial advice.
You can see the long-term opportunities
that there is with ai.
What am I concerned about?
I'm concerned that, uh, the historic lack
of investment generally in technology,
in the financial services sector in New Zealand,
where we are still seeing basic problems
with delivering what is promised by providers,
creates a layer of risk over invest over technology
that uses AI
and the ability of New Zealand Financial Services Inc.
To be able to be across, uh, the, you know,
where it can go, where it, where it can go wrong.
And that will become an increasing focus for our work,
both the opportunities, but also the approach
that the sector needs to take to investing safely, uh, and,
and testing the use of ai.
Yeah. So a
A sub off that, I guess this could be the same,
but it might be two different things.
What advice would you give to government
and what requests would you have of government
around those challenges?
Oh, gosh. I, we, we, we probably need
to do some more research work on that, but,
and initially, um, we, we've, we are fortunate,
for instance, the financial advice, uh,
laws were changed a few years ago, um, partly to allow, um,
what was then called robo advice
and what, what I suspect is now gonna be AI
advice to be delivered.
So we've, we've got a relatively up to date
and fairly flexible regulatory regime in that respect.
Um, I, I may be proven wrong by, by the industry,
but I don't think there are, um,
specific regulatory barriers to ai.
And I think with the introduction of Kofi,
with our financial advice, um, supervisory regime,
we've also got the tools
to influence firms and how they use them.
Mm. But we are very, I mean, looking at the, uh,
I mean, I know there's kind of issues around the pricing
of AI stocks in the international markets at the moment,
and is there a bubble or, or not.
But we've got, um, we've got some great members of staff
who are very future, future focused thinkers.
And we are anticipating, uh, that over,
whether it's the next year to five to 10 years, that ai,
the use of AI in the financial services sector will
dramatically change the way
that financial services are received and offered.
And that means that we need, as an organization, we need
to be keeping, uh, our eye kind of, you know,
very firmly focused on the risks of today,
but also the potential
and risks of tomorrow, uh, that, that come through.
So it will be, it will be, uh, increasing investment
for us. Yep.
Supplementary from, yeah.
Just a quick, um, question about the number
of scam alerts you issued last year,
I think was topped a hundred.
Um, in, in terms of the use of AI within the organization,
surely it's time that those scam alerts
that aren't necessarily reaching the people who need
to hear about them, vulnerable communities, older peoples,
um, might be, you know, scanned for and delivered by ai.
Mm-hmm. Um,
and so how do, how do you ensure
that you're getting the investment that you need to be able
to continue to deliver on?
Yeah, so we are constantly, um, we, we've,
we are constantly looking
at ways in which we can improve a number
of things when it comes to scam alerts, the way
that we communicate them, the way that we work multi-agency
with the scam alerts, the way
that we use our own technology.
So we've been investing
and we will continue to invest in our ability to be, uh,
to, to, to be able to collect.
It's, it's not just the actual scams, it's the ability
to be able to liaise with agencies, both in New Zealand
and internationally, to be able to collect intelligence
that scams, scams are occurring.
But it, it's, it's con it, it, it will, there's not one fix
that there will be to, it's a constant awareness
that we need to keep being curious and inquisitive
and resolved to be on top of the latest, um,
not just the individual scams,
but the ways in which, which the scams are appearing.
Mm-hmm.
I Think it's encouraging that some
of our regulated community are actively advertising
to their constituent consumers around how to think about
scams, basically slow the decision making down.
Um, so that's, that's encouraging.
And I think we can do more around educating consumers
and investors about being aware of scams.
The person that's on the phone
or the person on the screen is not
necessarily the person you think it is.
So it's actually raising people's awareness
of potential financial loss earlier.
Um, a new primary brief from Scott. Thank you.
Uh, Madam Chair. Um, you talked about the risk
of greenwashing earlier
and, um, arena, I think mentioned the problem of
verifying claims.
I'm wondering how well you work with others in the sector,
such as charities like Mindful Money to help
help us understand and help the, the great unwashed Yeah.
Make decisions when there's such lack of clarity and,
and, and,
and people really concerned about where they invest,
where the Kiwi Saver goes, what, what,
what's happening with their money? Yeah.
So we have, um, this, this over this, over this past year,
uh, have been, uh, really investing
a lot more into our engagement with the Vari, with,
with the various groups Mindful Money,
think Cap Christians Against Poverty,
and sort of the debt charities around, uh,
to build up our understanding, uh, particularly with,
with the, with credit, moving with Triple CFA,
coming into the FM with, into the FMA, to be able
to build up our understanding of where the risks are
and to build up those relationships.
And that will become increasingly important to us.
And that's included, um, that's included.
Things like, uh, with Fin Cap, uh, we've had the opportunity
to do a day in the life, which has been able to give, um,
you know, a number of us have been able to have, uh,
direct experience of, um, of, of, of individuals,
uh, coming in and who have been, uh, misled
by their experience in financial services.
Just a very, very quick, yeah.
Um, that relationship is something
that you have regular ey, or,
or is it just annual?
Or how, how does, how does it work
with those different, different,
Yeah, it's a current level.
So we had, uh, it's one of, uh, one of a number of, um, sort
of at senior level round tables that we've had.
Uh, we will be having, um, more of them next year,
but it's not occurring just at my level, uh, with the, uh,
it is, is, it is occurring very much at the
frontline working level.
So, whilst I may only meet,
although actually I've met with a number of the, um,
the representatives, um, informally
and formally, you know, 2, 3, 4, 5 times this year, uh,
it's also happening at the working level, uh, with, um,
with, with, you know, in our licensing
and in our supervision area.
And it will become, it is an important area of engagement,
engaging investment that we will
be, we will be doing as well.
We've also been, uh, under mat, our Maori strategy,
we have been, uh, we, we have been, um,
building up our engagement with Iwi
to understand Maori provider
and consumer experiences with the financial services sector.
And that will support, uh, our, build our understanding of
where we need to be working in order
to be able to make a difference.
I supplement just a couple, um, just, I,
I wanna express to you how impressed I have been at
observing that transition, um, to FMA with the, uh,
credit regulation.
Um, and I, I'm interested in knowing just where, where
that is up for now, and, um, how we can expect FMA
to be working with vulnerable consumers, which isn't,
you know, a group of people you have
needed to work with before.
Mm-hmm. Also interested in, um, 84%, I think
of your respondents to the survey about how they perceive,
you said that they perceive you really positively.
Do you think this will change if you are working
with those other groups, um,
who are at a different kettle of fish?
Um, and finally, you know, there's other users
of your services, particularly market integrity users, um,
will they see a change in your operating focus, um, right.
If you're moving away from, you know, the top end
of town in the boardrooms to, um,
south Auckland's car yards.
Yeah. That's a great, uh, gosh, that's a, that, those,
those are really great questions.
I would characterize, uh, our, the expansion of our remit,
uh, recently into, um, conduct of banks
and insurance, um, companies.
And in forthcoming into credit as doing two things.
The first is it more broadly means
that we are expanding into consumer protection.
It particularly and profoundly means
that we are moving into vulnerable consumer protection
and not just in the credit, uh, space either.
It's also in the insurance space.
So it's where, you know, if you, we, we can all be,
we can all start, you know,
we can all be vulnerable if our house is just burnt down
or has been flooded or, um, our, our partner has just died.
The experience that we have of the insurance sector
and the claims management experience of, of is, is profound.
Uh, and I'm, I'm mentioning that
because that's an area that we, in terms of vulnerability,
it's an area that, um, we is very much to the front
of our minds in the insurance sector, uh,
and with credit, absolutely less so at the big end of town.
But when you, when when you are not living in the middle
of a major city and your car breaks down
and you are on benefits, you don't have that many choices
when it comes to how do you get in your car.
So you can go to work and you can get your kids to school,
and that makes you vulnerable
and potentially exposed to, um, to, to actually,
even if you get great credit opportunity,
you've still got to pay it back.
Uh, and this is, uh, but, but quite often, they're not.
Quite often the vulnerability
of those consumers has been misused.
I'd like to pay, um, you know, I'd like
to call out the Commerce Commission who've done some
fabulous work in this area.
I know from my experience
of taking on credit regulation in my previous home country,
that, uh, the, the, the, the difference
between being the initial regulator of, uh, the, the,
the more difficult end of the credit sector is, um, is, is,
is is incredibly difficult.
And the commerce committee, you know, being able
to pick up from the Commerce Commission is really helpful.
To your point over how our engagement scores change,
I think we have to be pretty realistic.
You know, we will be doing a lot of work,
but the expectations on us, um, must
and should increase for the work that we can do.
And that's why it's important for us
to build out our relationships with the debt charities
and with those who representing the, uh,
representing vulnerable consumers.
They will be an important source
of intelligence that'll help us with education.
Uh, will we always be able
to meet their incredibly high expectations for all the cases
that we can take on?
That's a harder, you know, that, that,
that's, that's a harder question.
So I think we need to be ready.
Um, but, but I do, I, I, I anticipate
that rightly the expectations on us will increase,
and it could well be that, um, we, we want
to improve our engagement scores,
but actually for us, what we want to be able to do is
to point to really tangible
a really tangible difference that we can make. I have
One more, is that on that?
Yeah. Um,
Maori access to credit is a yearning gap.
It's in New Zealand's, uh, progress towards more access
to credit and more access
for small businesses, particularly.
Are you fixing it? And is it under threat
Again? So,
um, we will be
publishing some relevant research next week, access
to insurance, access to credit, uh, on, you know,
for those who are living, uh, who, who wish,
and who for Maori living in, who, who wishing to sort
of live in a TIA Maori way
or collectively owned land is, uh, is, uh,
quite possibly, um, a, a bigger problem
than, than, than perhaps we will realize to start with.
We have found out from the research
and the work that we've been doing this year that getting,
um, getting insurance for homes
and other, um, other, other high expense items such as,
you know, cars on communally owned land, we, uh, that,
that can offer access to that can be, IM impossible.
Mm. And we have found instances where premiums,
even if the premiums have been charged, but the, uh,
but actually the, uh, the claim has been invalidated
because of the, uh, because of community owned land.
So this will be the reason we have matura, uh,
which is a strategy to, uh, build up our capability
to be able to research and to understand,
but fundamentally to make a difference to Maori experience,
um, of financial services and ma and,
and, and really understand.
One of the things that we must understand is the way
that the financial services sector has evolved over decades.
And this comes through in the research
that we'll be publishing next, next week.
The way the financial services sector has evolved over
decades, not just going back to 1975, I'm going back beyond
that to, in a, in a way that, um, does, you know, conflicts
with tick hunger and
therefore conflicts with Maori, um, ma Maori access to, um,
to, to and, and ability both as providers and as consumers.
And this is something that, um, I would like to think
that the FMA we, we are not,
but I would like to think that in that in important ways,
we will be able to make a difference with the work
that we're doing, both with insurance
and banking coming over to us and credit and being able and,
and the work that we're doing under ro we can, we can point
to making an important difference.
Okay. Working with Maori, uh, primary Dr. David Wilson.
Thank you. Um, I'm gonna give you two strings
and hope that you make a bow out of them.
I'll do my best. So, uh, I think most
of us will remember the good old days
where you could write account pay only on a check.
Yeah. You expect that it would go to the right person.
We've gone digital and, um,
when you're looking at a transaction,
particularly say investment fraud, it happens
through a bank, one bank to another.
And the mule accounts that in the receiving bank, which, um,
has not been able to be looked at
by the banking ombudsman to date.
So the mule accounts are running right.
And doing what they like.
So that's one end of the continuum.
I looked in your report to see
that you've gone into licensing firms, um,
that provide financial services.
So that's the other strength to the bow.
I hope you can draw for me,
because at that point
where somebody is asking, has their money come
to the wrong place, confirmation of payee is one thing,
but it's not the answer.
It could be the ultimate beneficial owner
that we're actually looking for,
especially if they're talking your account.
Can that then be a position that the banks can take to say
that this account is not a licensed
financial service provider?
There, there are a couple of, couple of parts to that.
Um, I, I think that there are moves to improve the ability
to look at both sides of a transaction to a complaint,
recognizing the contributions on both.
And we very much welcome those, um, in, in terms of
where the money's eventually going.
Um, that, that really comes back to the sort
of multifaceted way that we need to attack scams.
Um, we absolutely are willing to use, um, Kofi
and the fair conduct programs to ensure
that banks are paying sufficient attention to the
customer protection systems that they have in place.
But it also comes back to that's, that's a little bit bottom
of the cliff, uh, in a, in a sense, it's
how do we stop the money from moving in the first place?
You know, what, what are the
disruption efforts that we can have?
Um, that's why we're working with the technology platforms.
Uh, we have trusted flagger status with TikTok, with Google.
We're working on something similar with meta, uh, to try
to disrupt the message
before money starts moving outta bank accounts.
That's long term going to be more effective.
Uh, but it's there, there's a lot, there's a lot in there.
So, um, we, we published, uh,
warnings last month about what's called a pump
and dump scheme, a a fraudulent investment scheme.
Um, and our team passed over a thousand pieces of content
to meta in the last month relating to those scams.
It's, it's very high volume.
It's, um, I, I, I love the suggestion of how we can use AI
to, um, to keep up with that
because it's, uh, it's,
it's fighting against the tide at times.
But, um, working with those technology platforms, working
with the banks, as Craig said, our education efforts
with consumers, we need them all together.
And the Antica Alliance with other, um, government
and private sector companies, that's what it's gonna take
to, to, uh, beat this.
Yes. I'm talking about a red flag. Yeah.
That if the person on the front desk at the bank can see
that this money is not going,
and it's intended to be an investment,
but it's not going to a license, financial service,
but red flag, and that pinches it right at the beginning.
Mm-hmm. But the thought, thank any question, um,
Any final questions?
Yes, thank you.
Um, just going back to the boardroom end of town, um,
market cleanliness.
Um, you have had, if a,
has in this year had some more criticism
around unclear guidance for insider trading.
Mm-hmm. Um, wanted to understand, um,
how you consult with an, with market participants
around those issues and how we build consensus around, um,
you know, what is a small market and people know each other,
and a pretty often unique set of circumstances
around institutional investors. Yeah.
So, um, so I'm gonna go back to a point, uh,
that I, I, I may be foreign,
and it's really important that the regulation,
unless you're serving a search warrant
or something, should be predictable.
And our initial, uh, information sheet on
what we were calling at the time, shadow
inside insider trading, did take the sector
by, by surprise.
Uh, and that's, uh, that's unusual for us
for, for that to happen.
And we recognized very quickly that we needed to talk more
with the sector on the issues.
And we've simply, we've just reissued the, uh,
we've reissued the information sheet and it's gone down.
It's gone down very well with some clear, uh, with, with,
with some clear examples of the cases
that we had been seeing to support the sector, understanding
what is and, and isn't acceptable.
It, you know, it market plenty, you know, for,
for a small open economy like New Zealand,
it's incredibly important that, uh,
we have a strong reputation for tackling insider trading
and any of the, and,
and anything else that can impact our market cleaner.
Generally we score well on market cleanliness,
but it is an area that we need to keep, we need
to keep a watch on.
I guess the worry would be that, um, something like
that might increase costs for capital raises.
Um, do, do we expect that to be a feature
of the New Zealand market board going forward?
Do we think that, um, capital raises will,
will have any costs associated with, with that advice,
or do you think you're out of the woods?
The, so it's a very, it's, it's a,
it it's a, it's a good point.
One of the issues with the work that we do to do
with market cleanliness is to get that right balance
between inappropriate use of private information for
personal gain that cuts across, uh,
confidence in market integrity,
and to make sure that there's different, there's clarity
between that and the efficient
and effective price discovery process
that, that, that occurs.
And that is, um, that there was a risk
that the information that we put out might cut across that.
What we are hearing from the clarification that we, um,
that we have recently published is that
that is not the case.
Okay. At all. It is a real,
there's a real ba there's a real balance to be made between
what is private, what is the misuse of private information,
what is good research
and analysis, how do we make sure that we've got
efficient price discovery at the same time
as confidence in the cleanliness of the market.
Uh, so there's a, you know, and,
and what we, when we actually take action on,
let's say something like insider trading,
when we actually go to the point of taking real action,
there's a significant investigation
that goes on behind that.
And these are really, you know, they, they,
they're very egregious cases that we,
that we will take action on.
Can I just ask you a very quick fire
question? Regulatory sandbox,
Who loves it? Oh, thank
you. Who hates it?
That's, that's why. And what's next?
Um, it's, it's, it's been a really fascinating experience
and, and a very useful one, I hope.
Um, we've got, uh, we'll be publishing the, the,
the first formal instrument that comes out of it for a,
a fractionalized property investment next week.
Um, we've got, uh, other firms that simply needed guidance
and assistance on the way through.
A couple of things, um, that we've discovered on the way
through though, um, is particularly for providers of,
um, e-payment services, e-money, stable coins, we,
we simply lack the regulatory infrastructure that they need.
And it's, I'm not coming at that as a regulator that,
that we need that, that they need.
That's right. And what we are hearing from, um,
fintechs in particular is they can't export their services.
They won't, and products overseas, they can't connect
to Swift because they can't get a license in New Zealand
because there's nothing to license.
That's right. So a fair bit of the work that we're doing
with a couple of the firms is,
is almost torturing our regime to, to fit, uh, something
that's essentially a payment product.
Um, but it's, we, we've learned a lot along the way.
Um, our board will be looking soon at the,
the possibilities, um, for next,
for the, for the next round.
Um, but, but options include exploring more in ai,
continuing our work with, um, tokenization, uh, of course.
Um, so we'll, we'll see what comes with that.
And the, the, the issue, uh, the issue
that we're experiencing over, do we have a,
you know, is there a sufficient regulatory regime
around virtual assets?
Is, and, and that being one that is an export opportunity
for New Zealand and not, uh, you know, not, not, you know,
not, not a, not a regulatory burden is one that we see.
And we're talking about international comparisons.
We do see in other jurisdictions that they have adopted
a regulatory regime for virtual assets.
For example, regulating the use
of distributed ledger technology to hold
and transfer value as a, as a way
of bringing business into their jurisdiction.
Because it provides certainty.
It, you know, it's, it's not just access to swift,
it's access to bank accounts, it's access, it's it's being,
being a trusted provider, uh, if you are exporting, uh,
into, into other, other jurisdictions.
We had a round table, um, oh, a month
or two ago with, uh, the fin with, with, um, some
of the FinTech providers.
And this was a point that was coming through
that loud and loud and strong.
So I would, I do anticipate that you, you,
you will hear more from, not necessarily from us at all,
but from the, um, but, but,
but from the industry and from us.
And from us, yeah. Okay. And from us. From us as well. Yeah.
Right. Uh, that's, that's very good. So thank you so much.
Um, great.
Samantha and Ali, any concluding remarks from you?
Just thank you for, uh, your questions
and you are interested in what we're doing.
Really appreciate the inquiry. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you so much.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
Into private session.